certdiff(1)		NetBSD General Commands Manual		   certdiff(1)

NAME
     certdiff -- report differences in certificate properties

SYNOPSIS
     certdiff [-Vhv] [-S sni] [-c config] [-p port] [-s server]

DESCRIPTION
     The certdiff tool will compare the properties of a given certificate
     against the prescribed properties from the configuration file and report
     on any differences.

     The certificate may be provided on STDIN; alternatively, certdiff can
     connect to a remote server and report on the presented certificate.

OPTIONS
     The following options are supported by certdiff:

     -V		Print version information and exit.

     -S sni	Specify the Server Name Indication to use.

     -c config	Read the configuration from this file.	If not specified,
		certdiff will try ~/.certdiffrc and /etc/certdiffrc.

		See CONFIGURATION for details.

     -h		Display help and exit.

     -p port	Connect to this port on the given server.

     -s server	Inspect this server's certificate chain.

     -v		Be verbose.  Can be specified multiple times.

DETAILS
     While numerous tools and services exist to 'grade' the quality of a given
     server's TLS connection and certificate use, it is often not possible to
     automate a check for compliance with a preferred configuration.

     For example, an organization may require that all certificates in use on
     its services are issued from a given set of root CAs, has a given valid-
     ity period, a limitation on SANs or wildcard names, etc.  certdiff lets
     you specify such requirements in its configuration file (see
     CONFIGURATION) and report on the differences.

     A certificate chain can be provided via STDIN; it should contain the leaf
     certificate as well as any intermediate certificates.  Inclusion of the
     root certificate in the chain file is optional, but may be necessary if
     the local root CA bundle does not include the root in question.

     If no file is provided, then certdiff will attempt to connect to the
     given server, expecting an X509 certificate chain.

CONFIGURATION
     The configuration file for certdiff is a plain text file containing
     key=value pairs.  Whitespace around either is ignored, as are following
     (and including) the '#' character until the end of line.

     Most values are comma-separated lists of strings; 'boolean' values are
     '0', '1', 'yes', 'no', 'true', 'false'.

     The following configuration options are supported:

     ct		   A 'boolean' value indicating whether or not a certificate
		   transparency log must exist for the given certificate.

     domains	   A comma-separated list of second-level domains that may be
		   used for the given certificate in all of its SANs or CN.

		   Domains are automatically prefixed with a '.' to avoid
		   accidental substring matching.

     keyLength	   The minimum key length of a certificate.  Keys larger than
		   this are permitted.

     maxValidity   The number of days that a certificate should be valid for
		   at most.

     maxSANs	   The maximum number of SANs permitted for a single certifi-
		   cate.

     maxWildcards  The maximum number of wildcard names (SANs + CN) permitted
		   for a single certificate.

     pins	   A comma-separated list of key pins to which the certificate
		   must chain.	Most commonly, these might be the pins for all
		   the root CA that the given service would be allowed to have
		   a certificate from.

     rootSerials   A comma-separated list of hexadecimal serial numbers to
		   which the certificate must chain.  This is similar to the
		   'pins' configuration option.

     sigAlgs	   A comma-separated list of signature algorithms.  Valid
		   algorithms are: MD2-RSA, MD5-RSA, SHA1-RSA, SHA256-RSA,
		   SHA384-RSA, SHA512-RSA, DSA-SHA1, DSA-SHA256, ECDSA-SHA1,
		   ECDSA-SHA256, ECDSA-SHA384, ECDSA-SHA512

     A sample configuration file might look like this:

	   ct = true
	   domains = example.com, example.net
	   keyLength = 2048
	   maxValidity = 180
	   maxSANs = 20
	   maxWildcards = 4

	   # We only accept certificates issued by the
	   # DigiCert High Assurance EV Root CA
	   pins = sha256/WoiWRyIOVNa9ihaBciRSC7XHjliYS9VwUGOIud4PB18=

	   # Oh, wait, we changed our mind, we also accept
	   # VeriSign Class 3 Public Primary CA - G5
	   rootSerials = 18DAD19E267DE8BB4A2158CDCC6B3B4A

	   sigAlgs = SHA256-RSA

EXAMPLES
     The following examples illustrate common usage of this tool.

     To report the status of the cert offered by www.example.com on port 443:

	   $ certdiff www.example.com

     To report the status of the certificate chain found in the file
     'server.pem':

	   $ certdiff <server.pem

EXIT STATUS
     certdiff returns 0 if no issues were encountered.	Otherwise, certdiff
     increments the return value for every problem.

SEE ALSO
     cipherdiff(1), openssl(1)

HISTORY
     certdiff was originally written by Jan Schaumann
     <jschauma@netmeister.org> in November 2016.

BUGS
     Please file bugs and feature requests by emailing the author.

NetBSD 7.0		       January 11, 2017			    NetBSD 7.0
